I’ve been in Vietnam a little over a week and already I’ve taken three AK-47 rounds and probably killed enough men to become an “ace” in Air Force terms. What will the next twelve months bring?

I was trained to kill and when it’s “kill or be killed” there is no emotional baggage doing
your job. No training can prepare you for the death of a friend. Luckily, I didn’t know
any of the sixteen who were killed very well, so the pain was not too great.

Those who were seriously wounded were sent to a hospital ship, I thought I was just
grazed in the arm and leg, so I went back to our ship, which had four or five doctors.
When I was examined, they found I was shot through the right upper leg and should have
gone to the hospital ship. But since I was here, I would stay. My arm was stitched up
right away but they waited a week to sew up my leg. Every day they would change the
packing all through my leg, talk about pain! The doctor made one stitch in my leg,
I was given a local, so I watched the whole operation, but when he tied the stitch and
left 3 inches of excess sutures, he just stuffed the excess sutures into my leg. I was
thinking to myself, “This just doesn’t seem right.” If it was not for the Demerol in me, I
am sure I would have said something. But I told myself he is the doctor and knows what
is best.

About two weeks later I was mopping the shower room and my right foot got real
slippery in my shower shoe. I just thought I stepped into water but then someone said,
“Man, you’re bleeding!” Now I know I should have questioned the doctor. I think I was
bleeding more now than when I got shot!

I was out of action for forty days after I was shot, and now it was time to go back to war.
Our entire unit had to leave because a USO show was coming to the ship and the upper
brass didn’t want a bunch of crazy Marines acting like a bunch of … well Marines!

We were helo’d off the ship and set up about ten miles south of the DMZ. My foxhole
was right on the edge of a small canal probable twenty feet across. Sometime in the
middle of the first night a frog jumped into the water, and I was only 99% sure it was a
frog. The other one percent told me it was the enemy. Fear gripped me so hard, and my heart was beating so fiercely, it actually caused pain. Although I knew it was a frog, fear
overtook me and I threw a grenade into the water. I don’t know if I killed the frog but if there was a NVA he was gone! We didn’t find any bodies the next day: man or frog. I
did catch a lot of crap for a long time though. Even now, that was the scariest moment of
my life.

One night I was the head of an outpost (three guys). We were about 100 yards in front of the lines. The purpose of an outpost is to see or hear in time to warn the main body. My lieutenant saw some red lights and informed me they were aiming lights for rockets and told me to call in artillery to destroy the lights and the enemy. I called in a few rounds and adjusted the distance and then had them fire for effect (a lot of rounds). I then realized they were only fireflies and told my Lt. He disagreed. So, I spent the rest of the night trying to kill fireflies with a 105mm howitzer... I believe I failed and suspect my tax dollars are still paying that bill off.

Probably the lowest point in my life was in the summer of 1968. Our Company (120 men) came upon an abandoned village a few miles south of the DMZ at twilight. One squad, 8 or 10 Marines, was ambushed and all were killed. The NVA shot them all in the head afterwards, to be sure they were dead. We could do nothing that night, but at first light we had the village almost surrounded. The NVA all tried to escape to the north and we killed them all. That was about 100 to 150 of the enemy. But we took one causality that day. I was a fire team leader, and I was in charge of three Marines. Richard “CARL”
Madison was only standing 5 feet from me and he took a round a few inches below his left shoulder. He died in my arms.
Carl was a friend, and I felt responsible. Although about twenty of us were all standing up shooting, we should have been laying down shooting. I think about Carl almost every day of my life and that was thirty-five years ago. That is what war is about.

I once missed death by exactly 24 hours. We were building a base called A-4, along the DMZ. On the first night nothing happened but the rain. Lots of rain. We slept and did our watch in foxholes. We had to bail water out every hour. The next night I was on a three-man outpost about 50 yards in front of the lines. In the middle of the night we heard an explosion toward our lines, when I went back to the lines the next morning, I found out an artillery round hit my previous night’s foxhole and killed all three Marines.

It was H & I fire, (harassment and interdiction). Supposedly all friendly positions in Vietnam were plotted so US artillery could fire into enemy territory just to unnerve them. Friendly fire killed those men!

War wasn’t always serious. During the Tet Offensive of ’68 (Initial attack Jan. 30/31), we were taken out of the bush and transferred to the Army. We became Charlie Troop, 101st Air Cavalry. We were assigned to guard a bridge that led to Quang Tri city. Quang Tri city was one of the very few cities that was not hit. Every night we would send out an “outpost” (4 men) and a patrol-ambush team (IQ men).

Most of the time both groups would go to a half-intact Catholic Church 100 yards in front of the line. We all would get a very good night's sleep doing this because a turn on watch was only an hour. But of course, we would have to alter our voices for the radio checks, because 2 teams should have been checking in. Not just the one.

I was very lucky not to be a part of any war atrocities. Once a
dozen of us were on patrol south of the DMZ along the ocean. The
Army was having a large battle about 5 miles away. Tommy Roth,
an “Okie from Muskogee”, was point and looked over a rise and
saw a bunch of sleeping NVA’s. Someone said, “Shoot ‘em,
Tommy, Shoot ‘em.” Tommy shot a bunch of sleeping NVA’s
that had never seen combat. We knew this because everything they had was brand new. The only time I had anything new  was
when I was new. It was wrong, but it wasn’t that long ago that a
dozen of our buddies were killed and then head shot just to be sure.
War brings us all down to the lowest common denominator.

War changes us all a little bit; it changes combat veterans a lot. In open fields I still look out for snipers. I still look at my feet to look
out for tripwires. Those are very hard habits to break. War movies
are too realistic for some of us to watch. I am lucky that I don’t
have any nightmares, but many Vets do.

Food in combat was normally “C-rations.” Many times, when we
were in a somewhat safe zone, we would get 1 hot meal dropped in
to us daily. Usually, we would get resupplied every 3 days in the
field. We would gorge ourselves and then destroy the leftovers.
One time after we got resupplied it really started to rain. It rained
40 inches in 3 days! We had to go for 6 days between meals. We
were all really hungry and I remember finding a can of meat that
was only half green with mold. I ate the half that wasn’t green.
Drinking water, which mostly came from the rice paddies, had been fertilized by humans and animal waste for the past thousand years. This required us to put 3 water purification tablets into the water, though 1 tablet was all that was required by the directions. We would also add lots of Kool-Aid into the water to kill the taste. Occasionally we would get cold milk, but it was usually sour. No one ever
threw that cold sour milk out though. A few times when we were without water, we would lick the dew off the leaves to get
something wet to drink.

Just weeks before I was to go home, we dug in on a mountaintop
that was in sight of North Vietnam itself. I was about to “shoot the
bull” with my machine-gun buddies, when a round came in and
killed Rocky, Archie, and another friend. The round came in from
caves in North Vietnam. I missed death by minutes again. That night I went to the LZ (landing zone) and talked to body bags for an hour.
Once while we were in the rear, a brand-new second lieutenant
jumped me for not saluting him. I told him that I don’t salute
officers. He next informed me that I WILL SALUTE HIM.
“Yessir”, I said, “From now on I will give you a snappy salute and
a loud and professional Good Morning or Good Afternoon,
whichever is appropriate, and then I will run like hell.” I then
briskly walked away. It took him about 30 yards to catch up to me
and tell me that I didn’t need to salute him. Wow, sometimes
officers can be really dumb.

The day the Air Force saved my life. Our platoon (30 men) set up
for the night on the edge of a clearing. We were right on the ocean
about a mile or so south of the DMZ. In the middle of the night we
heard the North Vietnamese digging right across from us. We
called in artillery and they would stop digging. Once the shelling
stopped, they would start to dig again. So we would have to call in
rounds again and they would stop. This went on all night. 

We knew “stuff’ would hit the fan at first light. A tank from our base met up with us along with two Huey gunships and two F-4 Phantoms. The F-4’s and Huey gunships made a few gun passes and then the F-4’s dropped Napalm. The Air Force informed us that our platoon and the one tank were up against a NVA regiment, which was roughly 800 men. We next decided to take a tactical advance to the rear. Retreating is not in the Marines’ vocabulary.

We only took one casualty that day. A friend -- we were all friends
over there -- looked into an enemy’s bunker without throwing in a
grenade. He took a round right between the eyes that literally split
his head in half. I was told to help evacuate him, but I became too
physically ill to do this, so others had to do it.

So, if it weren’t for those 2 F-4’s, 30 of us would be surrounded
with odds not in our favor of about 30 to 1. THANKS, AIR FORCE!

July 4th of 1968 was a very memorable 4th. We were in the middle
of a large battle that pitted our 200 men against 500 of the enemy.
The enemy stayed to fight because the odds were in their favor.
This was a moving battle that played out over acres of land, but when night came a white road separated us. We then called in F-4’s to drop napalm on the enemy’s side of the white road. In the
movie “Apocalypse Now”, it was referred that napalm was the
smell of victory. To us it was also the “Sight of Victory”. What
beautiful fireworks.
